
2019年 6月 8日 星期六 09时12分12秒 CST

== Number 23


= DISCLAIMER
Professional Judgment

Invasive medical procedures can result in harm to patients and
practitioners and should be performed only by qualified medical
professionals. This video is intended solely for informational purposes
and to supplement, not replace, proper training and supervision by
qualified instructors.

Medicine is an ever-changing field: viewers are advised to check the
most current information provided by the manufacturer for every
device being used and to verify the indications, constraindications, and
proper procedural technique. The dose, method of administration and
contraindications for any administered drug should be confirmed
before use.

The Massachusetts Medical Society, publisher of The New England
Journal of Medicine, does not assume any liability for any injury or
damage to any person or property arising from the use of this video.


= The NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL of MEDICINE
    PERFORMING MEDICAL PROCEDURES
      Female Urethral Catheterization

      Rafael A. Ortega, M.D.
      Linda Ng, M.D.
      Pavan Sekhar, B.S.
      Michael Song, M.A.

     Boston University Medical Center, Boston MA

This is a video in clinical medicine from the New England Journal of
Medicine. 

= 1 Introduction

female urethral catheterization the insertion of a catheler through the
urethra into the urinary bladder to permit drainage of urine is a
fundamental skill for the practicing healthcare professional.

This video discusses the indications for catheterization the equipment
available the current methods of catheter insertion and maintenance
potential complications and how to troubleshoot common problems

= 2

Female urethral catheterization is indicated for both therapeutic and
diagnostic purposes. Urinary catheterization is therapeutic in several
circumstances, it permits effective bladder drainage in patients with
acute or chronic urinary retention a urinary catheter may be used to
instill medication for local introvesicle therapy urethral catheterization
and irrigation may be used to remove blood and clots from the urinary bladder
in patients with gross hematuria urethral catheterization facilitates
diagnosis in several circumstances, such as obtaining sterile urine specimens
for urinalysis or culture measuring post-void residual volumes and monitoring
urinary output during surgery or in critically ill patients. Catheterization
also allows installation of contrast media during various imaging procedures,
 such as voiding Sisto your orthography and retrograde your thaad Rafi 

= 3 Contraindications

Suspected or confirmed urethral injury can be a contraindication to
catheterization urethral injuries are rare and are most commonly a result of
pelvic fractures or multi-system injuries.

Sign of Injury
  Blood at the urethral meatus
  Gross hematuria
  Perineal hematoma

    If blood is found at the urethral meatus or if there is evidence of
    gross hematuria or a perineal hematoma then urethral or bladder neck
    injury should be considered if there is any question of injury both
    genital and rectal exams should be performed and retrograde you're
    a thug Rafi considered before catheterization is attempted in this
    setting consultation with a specialist prior to catheterization if
    feasible and if time permits is prudent patients are unable to
    cooperate may require extra time for calming or may even need sedation
    for the procedure consultation with the urologist should be considered
    in patients with a recent history of urethral or bladder surgery.
   
    Since urinary catherization can cause infection or trauma this technique
    should not be used or routine management of urinary incontinence but
    should be reserved for circumstances in which invasive methods fail.

= 4 Equipment

A variety of prepackaged urethral catheterization kits are commercially
available a typical it includes a water absorbent under pack a sterile
fenestrated drape sterile gloves four or five swabs forceps an antiseptic
solution a 10 cc syringe prefilled with lubricating prefilled with sterile
water for ballon inflation a pre connected closed foley system and a
specimen container with cap and label other items such as those for securing
the system to the patient or the bed may need to be gathered separately.
There are many types of catheters varying in construction material design
and size catheters are most made from latex however the use of silicone
catheters is becoming more widespread as latex hypersensitivity and even
anaphylaxis related to latex are increasingly recognized.  Silver alloy
hydrogel coated latex catheters may decrease bacterial colonization and
growth and should be considered for patients with recurrent infections.

The Foley catheter is most frequently used in female patients requiring an
indwelling catheter. It is a double-lumen straight tip catheter with a
balloon at its end that is inflated after insertion into the bladder to
help retain the position of the catheter. Other types of catheters include
the triple lumen catheter which can be used for continuous bladder irrigation
after bladder surgery of for patients requiring irrigation to prevent
retention of clots within the bladder and the straight catheter which may be
used for intermittent catheterization or on a one-time basis to obtain a urine
sample.  The size of the catheter is categarized most frequently in French
units circumference in millimeters the narrowest and softest tube that can
effectively be used is recommended. Thereby limiting discomfort and decreasing
the risk of infection. Smaller catheters are used for narrow urethras or in
patients with a history of strictures or scarring 14 French - 16 French
catheters are appropriate for most adult women larger catheters 18 to 24
French may be used in patients who are at risk for obstruction of the lumen
for example patients with gross 


= 5

Explain the procedure to the patient addressing any specific questions or
concerns possible complications such as uretha and bladder trauma bleeding
and infection should be discussed with the bed flat.  The patient should
lie supine in a lithotomy position or a frog legged position with legs
apart and feet together.  If available a table with stirrups may be used
to facilitate visualization.

= 6 Anatomy

Begin by inspecting the genital area to identify the urethral meatus. The
adult female urethral meatus typically five to six millimeters in diameter
is an ovoid opening with the long axis on the vertical.  The female urethra
is a fibromuscular tube that is approximately 3.5 to 4 centimeters long.
It is located below the clitoris and above the vaginal orifice in the
superior fornix of the vulva.

= 7 Procedure

Inspect the sterile catheterization kit, remove it from its outer packaging
and place it within reach open the the inner paper wrapping to form a sterile
field to reduce the risk of infection urethral catheterization should be
performed under steril conditions which include wearing sterile gloves when
handling the equipment and throughout the procedure to avoid contaminating
the sterile gloves once you have washed your hands carefully, retrieve the
absorbent pad from the top of the kit and place it with the plastic side down
beneath the patient's buttocks before putting on the sterile gloves.  If pad
placement is difficult rhe wash your hands before putting on sterile gloves
and proceeding, then cover the patient's abdomen and superior public region
with the fenestrated drape now with the patient draped.  Organize the contents
of the tray on the sterile field pour the antiseptic solution over the
preparation swabs in the tray compartment set aside one or two of the swabs
in case excess antiseptic solution needs to be blotted. Squeeze some sterile
catheter lubricant onto the tray or into the sterile field to lubricate the
catheter tip before inserting it into the urethra.  After preparing the tray
using your non-dominant hand identify the urethra by spreading the labia
majora and menorah by placing the thumb and index finger medial to the inner
labia spreading the finger slightly and with gentle traction pulling upward
toward the head of the patient.  This hand is no longer sterile do not release
this non sterile hand from this position after you identify the urethral meatus.
  Use an expanding circular motion to clean the opening with remaining prep swabs.  Lubracate the distal end of the catheter with the  sterile jelly though
  lubrication is necessary to much libricant may delay the flow of urine.
Holding the catheter in the dominant hand gently introduce the catheter tip into
the meatus and slowly advance it through the urethra into the bladder if the
catheter is accidentally inserted into vagina or if the tip is contaminated
discard it and obtain a new sterile catheter before proceeding.  Because the
female urethra is short. urine may begin to flow befow the balloon has completely
entered the bladder.  Once you can see urine flowing through the catheter
continue to advance the catheter for another three to five centimeters to ensure
the complete insertion of the balloon in the bladder.  You may feel resistance
before the catheter is fully inserted in the bladder at the external sphincter
 instruct the patient to breathe deeply and to relax which should facilitate
passage of the catheter into the bladder.  Never force the catheter through the
urethra as this may cause your wreath roll trauma or perforation insert the
catheter completely into the urethra and do not inflate the balloon until
there is return of urine in order to avoid trauma due to enter urethral inflation.
inject the entire 10 cc syringe of sterile water to infalte the 5 cc balloon
completely note that the labeled volume of the balloon does not indicate the higher
volume required to fill it properly.  Partially filled balloons may lead to
catheter displacement and urethral or bladder trauma saline should not be used
because it may cause crystallization and valve malfunction.  Air also should not
be used because it allows the balloon to float in the bladder possibly kinking the
catheter with the ballon completely inflated.  Pull gently on the catheter to fix
the balloon against the bladder wall secure the catheter to the medical thigh of
the patient with tape or a catheter securing device.  Finally place the drainage
bag in a convenient location below the level of the bladder to remove an indwelling
catheter equipped with a balloon.  First deflate the balloon completely ensuring
that all of the previously injected water is retrieved.  After that gently pull
out the catheter if there is difficulty in removing the catheter consultation with
a specialist is advised.

= 8 Complications

The most common complications of urethral catheterization are trauma and infection
trauma may result from incorrect insertion of catheter into the urethra or removal
of the catheter with the balloon infalted strictures narrowing and scarring of the
urethra may result from such traumatic injury and can make catheterization
difficult.  Ingections is common in patients with indwelling catheters within 48
hours up to 85% of catheters may be colonized with bacteria which may lead to
bacterial urea the best way to prevent complications is to avoid catheterization
whenever possible.  Continue to review the patient's need for an indwelling
catheter and remove it as soon as possible.  The urethra of some female patients
may be difficult to catheterize for various reasons that include previous operative
procedures obesity previous childbirth and anatomical variants of pelvic organs
catheterization may also be difficult in patients for whom positioning may be
limited such as those with chronic arthritis.  If you are unable to pass the
catheter through the urethra of if you encounter resistance the urethra may be
kinked because pf pelvic organ prolapse.  If the prolapse is large and protrudes
from the vaginal opening it may be necessary to reduce it by gently applying
pressure to the prolapse and guiding it back into vagina.  If the urethra is not
easily visulized place the index finger of your non sterile hand inside the
vaginal orifice and gently apply pressure superiorly both to straighten the
urethra and to allow the finger to serve as a guide into the superior urethral
opening.  If you feel the catheter beside the finger it is incorrectly placed
inside the vagina.  In this case the catheter should be removed and properly
discarded. Use a new sterile catheter and attempt catheterization again.
In morbidly obese patients and assistant is often necessary to aid in retraction
and to maintain sterility if the flow of urine is slow or non-existent.
The cacheter may be obstructed or in the wrong sight or the bladder may be empty.
Flush the catheter with saline. If saline or urine freely returns the catheter is
properly inserted. Massaging the bladder by gently pressing on the patient's
abdomen may also facilitate the free flow of urine.

= 9 Summary

Female urethral catheterization performed with proper sterile technique is an
invaluable reliable method or both therapeutic and diagnostic purposes.  It is
important for all practicing health professionals to master the proper insertion
technique and understant the tisks and benefits of the procedure


See associated text for more information and references.
Animation sequence created by David Rosenberg

We are indebted to te patients and staff at
       Boston Medical Center
   for their collaboration and support.

